In the analysis, the following book-level measures of the KLD values were calculated: Average, Variance, Standard Deviation, Kurtosis, Skewness and Slope. On relating these book-level measures to book popularity by regressing them against log of downloads for each book, it is seen that among these measures, Average, Variance, Standard Deviation and Slope measures have a high impact on the log downloads whereas Kurtosis and Skewness measures have negligible impact. Similar to custom measures, the controls were also used in the regression analysis and their impact in log(downloads) were studied. R-squared values,  Coefficient values and p-value were used to determine which predictors have statistically significant effects on the dependent variable. The aim of regression is to get better R-squared values and for this the predictors which had high Coefficient values or with a p-value greater than 0.05 were considered. By examining these values for different genres,I was able to identify which genres have a significant effect on the popularity (downloads) of books and only those genres, which had an impact on the dependent variable were used as controls.

I used two models for my analysis, first an Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) model which is a method used in linear regression analysis and second a random forest regression which is a non-linear analysis. By optimizing the controls and book-level measures, I was able to arrive at an R-squared value of 16% for the OLS model and 23% for the random forest model. From these analyses the observation is that there are non-linear relations between the independent and dependent variables. In Task-3, to investigate the heterogeneity across genres, the dataset was analyzed separately for each genre to assess how the relationship between KLD measures and book popularity varies across genres. This was carried out with the linear OLS model and it is observed that for few genres, the independent variables under consideration could explicitly account for the trends in the dependent variable, resulting in very low Mean Squared Error and good R-squared values. Later upon using LASSO to infer which variables are most independently predictive, it is observed that the variables optimized in Task-2 for the OLS model align well with the LASSO results, suggesting that the optimization process was efficient.
